Adds Prismic + Next + Now Serverless guide (#921)
zeit/docs: pages/guides/serverless-prismic-next-now.mdx

import Guide from '~/components/layout/guide'
import { TerminalInput } from '~/components/text/terminal'
import { InlineCode } from '~/components/text/code'
import Caption from '~/components/text/caption'
import Note from '~/components/text/note'
import { GenericLink } from '~/components/text/link'
import Card from '~/components/card'

export const meta = {
  title: 'Create a serverless Next.js project with Prismic data',
  description:
    'Creating a Next.js project with Prismic as a data source and deploying to Now',
  published: '2019-06-20T14:46:50.000Z',
  authors: ['raulg'],
  url: '/guides/serverless-prismic-next-now',

>   editUrl: 'pages/guides/serverless-prismic-next-now.mdx',

Reviewer: Could you look at adding an OG Image? This can be done easily here - https://github.com/zeit/og-image

  lastEdited: '2019-06-20T15:07:16.000Z'
}

Using Prismic as a Content Management System goes pretty well with how Next.js handles data sourcing. We will go through a short, simplified example project that will show you how to source the content you have in a Prismic repository, how to create pages programmatically, handling dynamic routing, and deploying to Now. For this, we will build a quick blog site from scratch which illustrates the best approach to take when you intend to combine Prismic with Next.js and Now.

<Note>
  <GenericLink href="https://prismic.io/">Prismic</GenericLink> is a headless
  CMS that provides a web application that allows content writers to focus on
  creating and updating the content of their website.
</Note>

> 

Reviewer: Could you add the OG Image using the <Image> component here? There are examples in other guides on how this works.

## Step 1: Set up your Next app with Prismic

For this guide, we will start with installing a boilerplate Next.js project that uses Prismic. Start with installing the Prismic CLI package, followed by quick-starting your project from the provided git repo. This process clones the codebase and guides you through setting up the repository that will be used as your blog's data source.

<TerminalInput>
  yarn global add prismic-cli 
</TerminalInput>

> <Caption>Installing the Prismic command line tool</Caption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Caption>Installing the Prismic command line tool.</Caption>
```

<TerminalInput>
  prismic theme https://github.com/raulg/prismic-next-blog
</TerminalInput>

> <Caption>Quickstarting your Prismic boilerplate project</Caption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Caption>Quickstarting your Prismic boilerplate project.</Caption>
```

> Navigate to the folder you have created and inspect the files and folders that are included in this absolutely barebones project. You will find:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Navigate to the folder you have created and inspect the files and folders that are included in this barebones project. You will find the following:
```

> - `custom_types` folder, which details the data modelling for your Prismic repository, in this case a single _blog_home_ and _post_ documents.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `custom_types` folder, which details the data modelling for your Prismic repository, in this case _blog_home_ and _post_ documents
```

> - `package.json`, which includes the Next.js and React dependencies, as well as scripts to develop and deploy for Now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `package.json`, which includes the Next.js and React dependencies, as well as scripts to develop and deploy for Now
```

> - `next.config.js` and `now.json` that set up this as a serverless Now project. You can find more details about this configuration in its [dedicated guide](https://zeit.co/guides/deploying-nextjs-with-now/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `next.config.js` and `now.json` that set this up as a serverless Now project. You can find more details about this configuration in its [dedicated guide](https://zeit.co/guides/deploying-nextjs-with-now/)
```

> You can run your application with the `yarn dev` command, and check in `localhost:3000` that the app is running correctly. You will notice that for now it's only a simple index page, as defined in `pages`. This takes care of getting your simple Next.js app started and we can being setting up your Prismic repository.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can run your application with the `yarn dev` command, and check at `localhost:3000` that the app is running correctly. You will notice that for now it's only a simple index page, as defined in `pages`. This takes care of getting your simple Next.js app started, you can now begin setting up your Prismic repository.
```

Continue by installing the required packages to integrate your Next.js web application with Prismic.

<TerminalInput>yarn add prismic-javascript prismic-reactjs</TerminalInput>

> <Caption>Prismic specific dependencies to fetch and render documents</Caption>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<Caption>Adding Prismic specific dependencies to fetch and render documents.</Caption>
```

> If you open the `prismic-configuration.js` file, you might notice that the API endpoint has already been set up according to the repository you created during the installation process. Confirm the name of the repository so you can access the Prismic dashboard to manage your content. Go into the Prismic repository that you started earlier, and [create some content](https://user-guides.prismic.io/browse-documents-and-edit-content/editing-content/create-a-new-document) that you will use in your project. Just a simple blog home page and a couple of posts will do for now, but you can get as creative as you wish to. Take note that in this case, we will be using a rich text field that will serve as the body of the post, for the sake of simplicity. Normally, the body of a document would be a group of [Slices](https://user-guides.prismic.io/content-modeling-and-custom-types/field-reference/slices) to allow more flexibility when creating your posts.

Reviewer: From 'Take note that in...' - could you change this to use the <Note> component rather than part of the paragraph?

> If you open the `prismic-configuration.js` file, you might notice that the API endpoint has already been set up according to the repository you created during the installation process. Confirm the name of the repository so you can access the Prismic dashboard to manage your content. Go into the Prismic repository that you started earlier, and [create some content](https://user-guides.prismic.io/browse-documents-and-edit-content/editing-content/create-a-new-document) that you will use in your project. Just a simple blog home page and a couple of posts will do for now, but you can get as creative as you wish to. Take note that in this case, we will be using a rich text field that will serve as the body of the post, for the sake of simplicity. Normally, the body of a document would be a group of [Slices](https://user-guides.prismic.io/content-modeling-and-custom-types/field-reference/slices) to allow more flexibility when creating your posts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you open the `prismic-configuration.js` file, you might notice that the API endpoint has already been set up according to the repository you created during the installation process. Confirm the name of the repository so you can access the Prismic dashboard to manage your content. Go into the Prismic repository that you started earlier, and [create some content](https://user-guides.prismic.io/browse-documents-and-edit-content/editing-content/create-a-new-document) that you will use in your project. Just a simple blog home page and a couple of posts will do for now, but you can get as creative as you wish to. Take note that in this case, you will be using a rich text field that will serve as the body of the post, for the sake of simplicity. Normally, the body of a document would be a group of [Slices](https://user-guides.prismic.io/content-modeling-and-custom-types/field-reference/slices) to allow more flexibility when creating your posts.
```

## Step 2: Sourcing data from your Prismic repository

> With the relevant Prismic dependencies installed, we can start building a page that will serve as a blog index. `/pages/index.js` will have a component that'll get the _blog_home_ document with `getInitialProps` and render its Rich Text fields.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the relevant Prismic dependencies installed, you can start building a page that will serve as a blog index. `/pages/index.js` will have a component that will get the _blog_home_ document with `getInitialProps` and render it's Rich Text fields.
```

```js
import React from 'react'
import Prismic from 'prismic-javascript'
import { RichText, Date } from 'prismic-reactjs'
import { client } from '../prismic-configuration'

const BlogHome = props => (
  <div>
    <img src={props.home.data.image.url} alt="avatar image" />
    <h1>{RichText.asText(props.home.data.headline)}</h1>
    <p>{RichText.asText(props.home.data.description)}</p>
  </div>
)

BlogHome.getInitialProps = async context => {
  const home = await client.getSingle('blog_home')

  return { home }
}

export default BlogHome
```

<Caption>

>   <InlineCode>/pages/index.js</InlineCode> fetching the author data from{' '}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  An example <InlineCode>/pages/index.js</InlineCode> file fetching the author data from{' '}
```

  <i>blog_home</i>
</Caption>

> The `home` prop contains now the [document object](https://prismic.io/docs/reactjs/rendering/the-document-object) received from the API, including the data fields you set earlier for the blog author's image, the blog's title and short description. If you run the app now with `yarn dev`, you should watch that information being displayed in [`localhost:3000`](http://localhost:3000).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `home` prop now contains the [document object](https://prismic.io/docs/reactjs/rendering/the-document-object) received from the API, including the data fields you set earlier for the blog author's image, title, and short description. If you run the app now with `yarn dev`, you will see that information being displayed at [`localhost:3000`](http://localhost:3000).
```

> There are more ways to query the API to get the data you require. For now, let's use a [Predicate](https://prismic.io/docs/reactjs/query-the-api/query-predicates-reference) to get all of the _post_ documents you've created and sort them in descending order of its assigned date.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There are many ways to query the API to get the data you require. For now, let's use a [Predicate](https://prismic.io/docs/reactjs/query-the-api/query-predicates-reference) to get all the _post_ documents you have created and sort them in descending order based on its assigned date.
```

```js
const BlogHome = props => (
  <div>
    <img src={props.home.data.image.url} alt="avatar image" />
    <h1>{RichText.asText(props.home.data.headline)}</h1>
    <p>{RichText.asText(props.home.data.description)}</p>

    <ul>
      {props.posts.results.map(post => (
        <li key={post.uid}>{RichText.render(post.data.title)}</li>
      ))}
    </ul>
  </div>
)

BlogHome.getInitialProps = async context => {
  const home = await client.getSingle('blog_home')
  const posts = await client.query(
    Prismic.Predicates.at('document.type', 'post'),
    { orderings: '[my.post.date desc]' }
  )

  return { home, posts }
}
```

<Caption>

>   <InlineCode>pages/index.js</InlineCode> displays now a list of all blog posts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  An example <InlineCode>pages/index.js</InlineCode> file that displays a list of all blog posts.
```

</Caption>

> The `posts` prop contains an array of all the blog posts in your repository, arranged in descending chronological order, and we render the _title_ field of each of them in an unordered list. That's pretty much a minimalist blog home page. Let's move on to rendering the pages for each of your blog posts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `posts` prop contains an array of all the blog posts in your repository, arranged in descending chronological order. The _title_ field of each item is rendered in an unordered list. That's it for a minimalist blog home page. Let's move on to rendering the pages for each of your blog posts.
```

> ## Step 3: Rendering dynamic posts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 3: Rendering Dynamic Posts
```

> To create a page for each blog post document, you will set it up so that the page is generated dynamically using the uniqued individual slug (UID) that identifies each _post_ document. The approach is very similar than with the home page, but the API query in `getInitialProps` will instead fetch the document depending on its UID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a page for each blog post document, you will set it up so that the page is generated dynamically using the unique individual slug (UID) that identifies each _post_ document. This approach is very similar to that used with the, but the API query in `getInitialProps` will instead fetch the document depending on its UID.
```

```js
import React from 'react'
import { RichText, Date } from 'prismic-reactjs'
import { client } from '../prismic-configuration'
import Link from 'next/link'

const Post = props => (
  <div>
    <Link href="/">
      <a>back to blog list</a>
    </Link>
    {RichText.render(props.post.data.title)}
    <span>{Date(props.post.data.date).toString()}</span>
    {RichText.render(props.post.data.post_body)}
  </div>
)

Post.getInitialProps = async context => {
  const { uid } = context.query
  const post = await client.getByUID('post', uid)

  return { post }
}

export default Post
```

<Caption>

>   <InlineCode>pages/post.js</InlineCode> generates each page depending on the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  An example <InlineCode>pages/post.js</InlineCode> file that generates each page depending on the
```

  UID provided by the context
</Caption>

> Your blog posts are rendered, but there's no way to test them out since there's no easy way to navigate to each one. For that, you'll have to setup the [custom routing](https://zeit.co/guides/custom-next-js-server-to-routes/#the-new-routes-method) in `now.json` with serverless in mind.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your blog posts are rendered, but there's no way to test them out since there's no easy way to navigate to each one. For that, you'll have to setup the [custom routing](/docs/v2/deployments/routes/) in `now.json` with serverless in mind.
```

```json
{
  "version": 2,
  "builds": [{ "src": "next.config.js", "use": "@now/next" }],
  "routes": [{ "src": "/blog/(?<uid>[^/]+)$", "dest": "/post?uid=$uid" }]
}
```

<Caption>

>   <InlineCode>now.json</InlineCode> file with build and routing configuration

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  An example <InlineCode>now.json</InlineCode> file with build and routing configuration.
```

</Caption>

> With this, you can access each post directly with their UID slug. So for example, a blog post with the `best-foot-forward` will be accessible in your local environment after you relaunch it with `yarn dev` in the address `http://localhost:3000/blog/best-foot-forward`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With this, you can access each post directly with their UID slug. For example, a blog post with the `best-foot-forward` will be accessible in your local environment after you relaunch it with `yarn dev` at the address `http://localhost:3000/blog/best-foot-forward`.
```

> ## Step 4: Build client side navigation links

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 4: Build Client Side Navigation Links
```

> Now that the pages for your blog post documents are accessible, we can modify the index page so that the list of titles actually links to each of the posts. To do this, it's best to use Next's [`<Link>`](https://nextjs.org/docs#with-link) component to provide client-side navigation without a page refresh. The `<Link>` component requires two main props for navigation: `href` which will be the path used to route to the page; and `as` which will be the path as rendered in the browser. To aid on creating these two different paths, we can use the `linkResolver` and `hrefResolver` helper functions, defined within `prismic-configuration.js`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that the pages for your blog post documents are accessible, you can modify the index page so that the list of titles actually links to each of the posts. To do this, it's best to use Next's [`<Link>`](https://nextjs.org/docs#with-link) component to provide client-side navigation without requiring a page refresh.

The `<Link>` component requires two main props for navigation: `href` which will be the path used to route to the page; and `as` which will be the path as rendered in the browser. To aid on creating these two different paths, we can use the `linkResolver` and `hrefResolver` helper functions, defined within `prismic-configuration.js`.
```

```js
// Manages links to internal Prismic documents
linkResolver: function (doc) {
  if (doc.type === 'post') {
    return `/blog/${doc.uid}`
  }
  return '/'
},
// Additional helper function for Next/Link components
hrefResolver: function (doc) {
  if (doc.type === 'post') {
    return `/post?uid=${doc.uid}`
  }
  return '/'
}
```

<Caption>

>   Helper functions in <InlineCode>prismic-configuration.js</InlineCode>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Helper functions in the<InlineCode>prismic-configuration.js</InlineCode> file.
```

</Caption>

> These generate both the aesthetic path with `linkResolver`; and the functional path that will properly pass the UID with `hrefResolver`. These will need to be modified along with your project as your routing expands, so that they always reflect the routing you have set up in `now.json`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
These generate both the aesthetic path with `linkResolver`; and the functional path that will correctly pass the UID with `hrefResolver`. These will need to be modified along with your project as your routing expands, so that they always reflect the routing you have set up in your `now.json` file.
```

You can adjust the unordered list in `pages/index.js` so that it wraps a `<Link>` around the title, as well as adding the `Date` value for each of the blog posts.

```diff
import { client, linkResolver, hrefResolver } from '../prismic-configuration'
import Link from 'next/link'

const BlogHome = (props) => (
  <div>
    <img src={props.home.data.image.url} alt='avatar image' />
    <h1>{RichText.asText(props.home.data.headline)}</h1>
    <p>{RichText.asText(props.home.data.description)}</p>

    <ul>
      {props.posts.results.map((post) => (
        <li key={post.uid}>
-         {RichText.render(post.data.title)}
+         <Link href={hrefResolver(post)} as={linkResolver(post)} passHref prefetch>
+           <a>{RichText.render(post.data.title)}</a>
+         </Link>
+         <span>{Date(post.data.date).toString()}</span>
        </li>
      ))}
    </ul>
  </div>
)
```

<Caption>

>   Modification to <InlineCode>pages/index.js</InlineCode> to add the blog posts

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Modifying the <InlineCode>pages/index.js</InlineCode> file to add the blog posts
```

>   link list

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  link list.
```

</Caption>

You can reload your site at [`localhost:3000`](http://localhost:3000/) and test out the navigation for your blog. It's quite minimalistic, but you've built it from scratch.

> ## Step 5: Deploying to Now

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Step 5: Deploying With Now
```

> So far, you've been using [`now dev`](https://zeit.co/docs/v2/development/frequently-asked-questions) for local development, but what good is a blog if you don't show it off to the world. It's time to deploy it to the Now platform and enjoy your serverless web application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
So far, you've been using `yarn dev` to develop locally, but what good is a blog if you don't show it off to the world. It's time to deploy it to the Now platform and enjoy your serverless web application.
```

Edit the `now.json` configuration file to include a project name. This is optional, but it helps to have human-readable addresses when sharing your project with the public.

```json
{
  "version": 2,
  "name": "mini-blog",
  "builds": [{ "src": "next.config.js", "use": "@now/next" }],
  "routes": [{ "src": "/blog/(?<uid>[^/]+)$", "dest": "/post?uid=$uid" }]
}
```

<Caption>

>   <InlineCode>now.json</InlineCode> configuration file with an example project

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  An example <InlineCode>now.json</InlineCode> file with an example project
```

>   name

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  name.
```

</Caption>

> Since the `next.config.js` file is already set-up as targetting for serverless, your project is ready to be deployed to Now. You can run `yarn deploy` to launch the Now CLI tool which will quickly setup and deploy your project online. Once it's done, you can check the generated url.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since the `next.config.js` file is already set-up as targeting for serverless, your project is ready to be deployed with Now. You can run `yarn deploy` to launch the Now CLI tool which will quickly setup and deploy your project online. Once it's done, you can check the generated url.
```

> Your minimalistic blog using Prismic and build with Next is now online on Now.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your minimalistic blog using Prismic and buit with Next.js is now online on Now.
```

> For increased performance, you can take advantage of the [Serverless Pre-rendering](https://zeit.co/blog/serverless-pre-rendering) feature to serve our dynamic content with static speeds. Just have to add a couple lines to our `index.js` and `post.js` files in the `getInitialProps` method.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For increased performance, you can take advantage of the [Serverless Pre-rendering](https://zeit.co/blog/serverless-pre-rendering) feature to serve your dynamic content with static speeds. All you need to do is add a couple of lines to your `index.js` and `post.js` files in the `getInitialProps` method.
```

```js
if (context.res) {
  context.res.setHeader('Cache-Control', 's-maxage=1, stale-while-revalidate')
}
```

<Caption>

>   Added lines to <InlineCode>BlogHome.getInitialProps</InlineCode> and{' '}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Adding lines to the <InlineCode>BlogHome.getInitialProps</InlineCode> file and{' '}
```

>   <InlineCode>Post.getInitialProps</InlineCode> for SPR

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  <InlineCode>Post.getInitialProps</InlineCode> file to enable SPR.
```

</Caption>

Deploy this new version to Now with `yarn deploy`. You minimal blog is now being served even faster thanks to the Now Smart CDN. You can try adding or modifying content in your Prismic repository and it will be served instantaneously on your now public site.

> This small guide goes over the basics of a Prismic + Next.js project. You can build far more complex web applications that will be served at blazing fast speeds for users all around the globe.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

This small guide covers the basics of a Prismic + Next.js project. You can build far more complex web applications that will be served at blazing fast speeds for users all around the globe.
```
